# ActOne

ActOne is in the expo managed workflow, using a bare typescript template.

The expo-cli is needed to run the dev server and to install certain expo modules.

expo-cli installation instructions can be found here:
https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/get-started/installation/

## Usage

install dependencies: `yarn`

start dev server: `yarn dev`

run tests: `yarn test`

check types: `yarn check-types`

## Committing

There are a number of pre-commit hooks installed with the repo. The goal of the
hooks are to ensure each commit:

- has consistent style
- does not have build errors
- does not have type errors
- passes the tests

### Good to know

The `yarn check-types` script that is used in the pre-commit hook always checks
the entire project. The reason is because it does a compilation dry-run. This
means you may need to add what you want to staging and then
`git stash save --keep-index` to prevent the script from checking work that is
in progress.

## Architecture

The entry-point for the app is `App.tsx` in the top-level directory. It is not
possible to change this due to expo assumptions.

App defines the navigation stack and should also hold the state for any
application-wide contexts, e.g. a UserContext.

The components App adds to the stack are held in the screens directory e.g.
Home, Play etc.

Because typescript cannot correctly infer types passed as params to each screen,
the screens should be defensive against incorrectly passed data, see
`screens/Play`. This works towards async fetching of plays in future.

Components are found in the components directory, these are organised by screen,
with components that need to be shared between screens living in the `common`
folder.

## Style

The project uses styled-components. If there are styles that should be shared
between components these should live in the `src/styles` directory e.g.
`typography.ts`

## Types

Types should be co-located where possible, but for global types rather than
using the `declare` keyword we should add them to the `src/types` folder.
Then they can be imported like any other module. see `src/types/play-types.d.ts`

## Tests

Tests should be co-located with the file they are testing.
Tests use `react-native-testing-library` for rendering and querying.
Navigation is tested in App.tsx tests.

## Plays

Plays are stored in JSON format and are found in the `src/data/plays` directory.
There are a number of unformatted plays found under `src/data/plays/unformatted`.
These plays can be converted into the correct format using
`scripts/format-script.js`. The plays have been auto-generated by someone else
so there is no guarantee the script is good after putting it through the format
script, each will need proof reading.
